README.adoc, before:

= Maven Multi Module

== About the project

This is a greeter project. The running of the main class in this project prints a "Good [morning, afternoon or evening], today is: <yyyy-MM-dd>".

The root POM is an aggregator that declares three modules:

=== datetime-fetcher

The link:datetime-fetcher/[datetime-fetcher] module provides the local date time as well as a mapper to time periods of morning, afternoon and evening. The link:datetime-fetcher/src/main/java/module-info.java[module-info.java] exports and opens packages for use in other modules. The link:datetime-fetcher/pom.xml[POM] declares itself a child of the aggregator root POM.

=== greeting

The link:greeting/[greeting] module formats the date time information and time period into a string. The link:greeting/src/main/java/module-info.java[module-info.java] specifies the requirement of the *datetime-fetcher module* and exports the greeting classes for use in other modules. The link:greeting/pom.xml[POM] declares itself a child of the aggregator root POM and among other things, declares a dependency on the *datetime-fetcher* jar.

=== greeting-generator

The link:greeting-generator/[greeting-generator] module invokes the greeting module. The link:greeting-generator/src/main/java/module-info.java[module-info.java] specifies the requirement of the *greeting module*. The link:greeting-generator/pom.xml[POM] declares itself a child of the aggregator root POM and among other things, declares a dependency on the *greeting* jar.

== Understanding "modules"

=== Maven modules

Maven has a concept of *_modules_* that define project structure to better organize grouping of code and provide for a possible independent control of versions and dependencies. A POM declaring modules specifies a _downward hierarchy_ of sub-projects that are aggregated. A child POM can additionally declare a *_parent_* to declare an _upward hierarchy_ for the specific subproject.

=== IntelliJ modules

IntelliJ *_modules_* are quite similar in perspective to maven modules. IntelliJ modules focus on specific JDK versions, customizable sources and resources per module etc. Each module notably, has a specific entry in the .idea/modules.xml and .idea/compiler.xml, among other things.

=== Java modules

Java *_modules_* focus on strong encapsulation and setting up a modular set of permissions and restrictions on a package-level for Java classes. Java modules do not control either the versions of Java used or the version of the subproject artifact.

== Project Structure

```
.
|____pom.xml                        <----- Aggregator (reactor) POM parent for all others
|____IDE                            <----- IDE Run Configuration for a maven clean install
|____README.adoc                    <----- This file
|____datetime-fetcher
| |____pom.xml                      <----- datetime-fetcher child POM
| |____src
| | |____main
| | | |____java
| | | | |____module-info.java       <----- Exports and Opens a few packages
| | | | |____none
| | | | | |____cvg
| | | | | | |____maven
| | | | | | | |____datetime
| | | | | | | | |____fetch          <----- Package exported (and open)
| | | | | | | | |____runtime        <----- Package opened
| | |____test
| | | |____java
| | | | |____none
| | | | | |____cvg
| | | | | | |____maven
| | | | | | | |____datetime
| | | | | | | | |____fetch          <----- Package exported (and open)
|____greeting
| |____pom.xml
| |____src
| | |____main
| | | |____java
| | | | |____module-info.java       <----- Requires datetime-fetcher & exports  greeting
| | | | |____none
| | | | | |____cvg
| | | | | | |____maven
| | | | | | | |____greeting         <----- Package exported
|____greeting-generator
| |____pom.xml
| |____src
| | |____main
| | | |____java
| | | | |____module-info.java       <----- Required modules declared
| | | | |____none
| | | | | |____cvg
| | | | | | |____maven
| | | | | | | |____datetime
| | | | | | | | |____greetinggen

```

Commit message:

Slides linked in README.adoc
Added link to slides

README.adoc, after:

= Maven Multi Module

== Slides for this project:
link:https://speakerdeck.com/cguntur/apache-maven-4-dot-dot-dot-is-awesome[Apache Maven 4 ... is Awesome!]

== About the project

This is a greeter project. The running of the main class in this project prints a "Good [morning, afternoon or evening], today is: <yyyy-MM-dd>".

The root POM is an aggregator that declares three modules:

=== datetime-fetcher

The link:datetime-fetcher/[datetime-fetcher] module provides the local date time as well as a mapper to time periods of morning, afternoon and evening. The link:datetime-fetcher/src/main/java/module-info.java[module-info.java] exports and opens packages for use in other modules. The link:datetime-fetcher/pom.xml[POM] declares itself a child of the aggregator root POM.

=== greeting

The link:greeting/[greeting] module formats the date time information and time period into a string. The link:greeting/src/main/java/module-info.java[module-info.java] specifies the requirement of the *datetime-fetcher module* and exports the greeting classes for use in other modules. The link:greeting/pom.xml[POM] declares itself a child of the aggregator root POM and among other things, declares a dependency on the *datetime-fetcher* jar.

=== greeting-generator

The link:greeting-generator/[greeting-generator] module invokes the greeting module. The link:greeting-generator/src/main/java/module-info.java[module-info.java] specifies the requirement of the *greeting module*. The link:greeting-generator/pom.xml[POM] declares itself a child of the aggregator root POM and among other things, declares a dependency on the *greeting* jar.

== Understanding "modules"

=== Maven modules

Maven has a concept of *_modules_* that define project structure to better organize grouping of code and provide for a possible independent control of versions and dependencies. A POM declaring modules specifies a _downward hierarchy_ of sub-projects that are aggregated. A child POM can additionally declare a *_parent_* to declare an _upward hierarchy_ for the specific subproject.

=== IntelliJ modules

IntelliJ *_modules_* are quite similar in perspective to maven modules. IntelliJ modules focus on specific JDK versions, customizable sources and resources per module etc. Each module notably, has a specific entry in the .idea/modules.xml and .idea/compiler.xml, among other things.

=== Java modules

Java *_modules_* focus on strong encapsulation and setting up a modular set of permissions and restrictions on a package-level for Java classes. Java modules do not control either the versions of Java used or the version of the subproject artifact.

== Project Structure

```
.
|____pom.xml                        <----- Aggregator (reactor) POM parent for all others
|____IDE                            <----- IDE Run Configuration for a maven clean install
|____README.adoc                    <----- This file
|____datetime-fetcher
| |____pom.xml                      <----- datetime-fetcher child POM
| |____src
| | |____main
| | | |____java
| | | | |____module-info.java       <----- Exports and Opens a few packages
| | | | |____none
| | | | | |____cvg
| | | | | | |____maven
| | | | | | | |____datetime
| | | | | | | | |____fetch          <----- Package exported (and open)
| | | | | | | | |____runtime        <----- Package opened
| | |____test
| | | |____java
| | | | |____none
| | | | | |____cvg
| | | | | | |____maven
| | | | | | | |____datetime
| | | | | | | | |____fetch          <----- Package exported (and open)
|____greeting
| |____pom.xml
| |____src
| | |____main
| | | |____java
| | | | |____module-info.java       <----- Requires datetime-fetcher & exports  greeting
| | | | |____none
| | | | | |____cvg
| | | | | | |____maven
| | | | | | | |____greeting         <----- Package exported
|____greeting-generator
| |____pom.xml
| |____src
| | |____main
| | | |____java
| | | | |____module-info.java       <----- Required modules declared
| | | | |____none
| | | | | |____cvg
| | | | | | |____maven
| | | | | | | |____datetime
| | | | | | | | |____greetinggen

```
